yo what up new books on my desk this
stuff is uh preparing for teaching
English in China although I'm first
going to be a student of Chinese and
then later a professor teaching
university classes over there but
teaching English in a formal university
lecture format so we'll see what's up
with that in due course the subject of
this video is not that serious but it is
I think very useful for many of my
viewers that's already interesting
contrast between what's serious and
what's useful but I mean some of the
videos on this channel are very very
very serious in tone
I had this recent interview with Zarya
you can see it as a video a few days ago
or you can download it as a podcast it's
like an hour and a half long we both
laugh and cry during that conversation
we both of us like briefly break down in
tears it was like a long silence after
that and that's real that one video like
to be honest with you I think there's
more real content in that video about
veganism about activism about life and
everything else suddenly there's more
content in that one video than some
people have in their whole Channel and
I'm really I'm really proud that we made
that video and she's not a close friend
of mine she's not I mean you know we got
that real that's the first conversation
we've ever had together so some of the
stuff I had my channel you can respect
it or check it but this video is is
responding to a question I got from a
much younger female viewer and she lives
in Canada part of Canada I'm basically
familiar with and she's struggling with
something I think a lot of my viewers
struggle with it every age which is how
it deal with questions that are
basically hostile sometimes kind of
demeaning and insulting questions from
non vegans including her own mother
including her her mom now so say in
giving her advice she asked for my
advice to give some specific pointers
what I have to say is I think useful but
it's not that serious a lot of what goes
on in these sorts of conversations
it really boils down to understanding
the function of the question as opposed
to focusing on the particular words that
are being said so for me as an adult man
in Western culture someone might come up
to me alright I'm gonna give examples
that are specific to my life someone
might ask me a question about Buddhism
they might ask a particular question and
they let's say they phrase it in terms
of that someone walks up to me says how
dare you criticize bhikkhu bodhi so I
used to be a scholar of Buddhism I have
written critiques of piccu Bodhi there
she very polite critiques the bhikkhu
bodhi is a particular Buddhist monk and
this person may ask me a question but
the real function of the question apart
from the wording is that this person is
really asking do I know what I'm talking
about they may also be asking are my
intentions good was my heart in the
right place when I wrote this critique
of a well-known Buddhist monk right and
my answer that question might be
completely disregarding the particular
words the particular thing they're
asking I might say back to them you know
I've met bhikkhu bodhi I talked to him
for quite a few hours and perseverant
you he's gonna say back to that oh
really oh wow okay and then I might say
you know um I remember the first time I
sent him an email tell the I thought
about that I might say I remember how I
went to his Buddhist temple under these
conditions and met him and talked to him
I might elementos for that I might
provide information about me and Who I
am and my motives and information that
demonstrates that I know what I'm
talking about and that I'm acting with
faith that doesn't answer their question
in any way and yet it it really responds
to the function of the question they
were asking me because I recognized the
reason why they're asking me that
question and I'm responding to that now
I mean sometimes the reasons what people
ask you these questions can be nasty
sometimes they're just
you a question to insult you so another
part of my life a lot of what I've been
doing has been the study of languages
right and I've studied some obscure
languages like lotion I've also studied
the language like pally pally is even
more obscure oh that's debatable which
one is more obscure lotion or pally
lotion is the language of the Lao people
in Southeast Asia so let's say someone
comes up to me and asked me a question
and regardless of the particular wording
the real function of the question is to
insinuate that I don't know what I'm
talking about that I didn't really learn
the language that I didn't really study
the language or that I don't know as
much as someone who was a PhD in that
language now again this actually I'm
gonna come back to veganism this is
pretty closely parallel to the type of
the type of challenges you get on on
veganism and you know it's really
worthwhile to respond to those things
and with its self-confident but that
recognizes the problem you know if
people do that to me it's been a long
time similar did that to me it depends
the guys but I might say we're spawning
to the function of the question not to
the wording I may disregard completely
the actual question ask me I say yeah
you know it's really hard it's really
hard to learn the language so I might
start is acknowledging it's not easy and
I don't think I'm the greatest master in
the world might just recognize by saying
it's really hard and likewise I'm going
to come back to veganism you can respond
to questions about veganism by
acknowledging yeah you know it's hard
it's not easy it's hard to learn the
language I remember living in a grass
hut on the Mekong River the huts are
actually made of bamboo we say we say
craft bamboo hut sleeping under a
mosquito net with no electricity and
having a flashlight and studying you
know a textbook that I had made up of
photocopies and computer printouts from
like bits and pieces of like US Army
manuals on the language I had some
materials created by Christian
missionaries like this is an obscure
enough language that you're not
using like real textbooks a lot of the
time you're using bits and pieces of
things that you've put together like
yeah you know what it's really hard and
there are very few people who are real
experts in the language and I might tell
some other anecdotes I might tell
anecdotes yeah you know what I remember
one time I was standing on the banks of
the Mekong River
I just been doing some push-ups while
waiting for this boat to pick me up and
these guys came up to me in Lao speaking
into loud language and they were really
impressed with my chest hair I've been
doing push-ups we were waiting for hours
for that boat by the way I don't do this
morning for five minutes or if a boat
was delayed for a long long time which
is also very typical of love and um they
asked me in Lao did you grow this hair
yourself or did you pay money for it
that was question alert and I could tell
an Android with the answers I gave in
Lao and how I struggled to put together
the vocabulary to come with that answer
now that might not answer the question
put to me at all the but the function of
the question was this person insulting
me or challenging me or wanting to know
do I really know what I'm talking about
am I really sincere am I really real and
I'm coming back in a way that's really
real and I'm coming back in a way that
maybe acknowledges underlying problems
or contradictions so that's how I've
gone through my life and I think that
approach works quite well with Americans
I'd say it probably works it works well
with Americans works well with Chinese
people does not work very well with the
British as a significant contrast
I've already complained a lot about
British culture on this channel but that
kind of honesty isn't really not always
rewarded with the British so you can
observe that I think it works pretty
well with the Swedes works pretty well
with the Finnish and the Norwegians it
works pretty well with the Germans not
as well as the Americans but that's when
I talk about keeping it real on this
channel that is one method of keeping it
real and I do not
spawn to those challenges by saying to
someone who do you think you are or
don't you know who I think I am I think
that's really counterproductive and you
just escalate hostilities so coming back
to veganism when people challenge you in
this way on veganism it's not weak to
acknowledge the problems you're being
presented with it's strong you know and
a lot of the time these are people who
don't want to hear a lecture about
animal rights that don't that you have
to recognize the function of the
question they're asking you so you know
she gives example of what about the
people picking the plants and the farms
what about the rights of the farm
laborers now I have made several videos
about this old truck I'll provide a link
below this video to one one that I think
is still good talking about that
question have you actually been to a
farm do you actually think about farm
laborers which is a meaning it's a
meaningful question I can easily give a
one-hour lecture on it right now or if
someone asked me but in real life if
someone challenges me with that question
they don't want to hear a one-hour
lecture that's not the function of the
question they're not sincerely
interested that extent they are testing
your sincerity the goodness of your
intent of whether or not you know what
you're talking about other things
they're testing your character really
you know and they're only secondarily
interested in veganism so some one
specific example someone says to you
well what about the exploitation of farm
workers you can say you can see right
back to them the same way I said about
you know what learning to allow language
is hard you know what studying with a
Buddhist monk in a monastery is hard
yeah you know what I know about that
I've had that experience so when I write
a criticism of it it's coming from a
place with something really real
something I care about something I have
experience with something I've done so
yeah I am in a position to talk about
that language to talk about Buddhism
this is Who I am
I'm gonna testify yeah you know what
it's hard it's hard to make a difference
in labor rights for migrant workers
we're gonna form it's a big problem yeah
I agree
now you know what that's not a reason to
drink the milk out of a cow's titty
and if you can say that to someone
straight looking in their eyes you know
like you've just pointed out the
absurdity of the connection of these
things but you've acknowledged you know
what you make a good point I'm concerned
about labor rights on farms in southern
Ontario back when I was living in
southern Ontario we had farm laborers
from Nicaragua coming to work illegally
picking fruit on farms and southerners
are doing other tat you know the tobacco
farms everything else
I don't know now if it's still in the
keurig ones I've heard lately a lot
about Filipinos working on fruit farms
in Ontario but anyway it's probably all
of the above yeah there are real
questions of illegal migrant laborers
questions of how well they treat you
know even Canadian citizens who work on
those farms too and so I'm sure you know
what that's an issue but that is not a
reason to get down on your hands and
knees and suck the milk out of a cow's
udder is it homeboy like I said this
video is not that serious but it's
useful I mean this is really what you're
doing in that kind of short conversation
if somebody is pointing out to you a
contradiction within veganism you can
acknowledge that you can own that you
can say yeah you know what this is a
problem veganism doesn't solve every
problem in the world I had a good one
Jake Eames was writing to me he's really
concerned about people dumping plastic
into the oceans as a totally legit
problem you know he's vegan whatever but
you know veganism can't claim to
eliminate all plastic garbage in the
world veganism is something really
positive it solve some problems doesn't
solve others you know I think the other
dynamics that are involved here do have
to do with gender and age and authority
back when I ran a vegan blog I gave
advice too and I spoke to a lot of
females who were writing in to me about
the extreme disrespect they got from
co-workers like maybe from other
students University but you know what no
it was more
coworkers family members even their own
boyfriends look whatever the district in
the disrespect day as women got from
other women about veganism was really
extreme and really nasty and four men
four grown men especially one of the
natural limits is that there's always
the issue of resorting to violence like
one of the reason why grown men are
civil is like well look do you want to
take this outside like are you actually
trying to start a fistfight with me that
is always there for men and it's not
nice but in a sense people behave kind
of more more rationally they stay on
their P's and Q's a bit more because the
shadow of that hangs over the whole
conversation some women in Western
culture are not even aware of that like
they don't know you know when you have a
situation with both men and women
involved and women are really being
disrespectful they may not realize that
they're forcing two men to get into a
conflict that they're escalating
conflict that they're forcing a
fistfight you know this woman is just
freaking out and she thinks that's cool
she thinks there are no consequences but
then the men are expected to lay hands
on each other to settle the issue that's
it's broody and networking it's it's
brutal and nasty and terrible but that
is a gendered issue of these kinds of
conflicts and I do think in a lot of
situations women will just take it
really far they'll really disrespect
each other try to make each other cry
attack each other or whatever and when
you're a young woman I think that can be
a real problem is that level of
disrespect but you know what's what's
the way to respond to that recognize the
function of the question that's being
asked to you rather than responding to
the particular words if the function is
just to disrespect you if it's just to
say you know you ain't if it's just
to say you don't know what you're
talking about like you know you can
respond to that by looking back at the
person saying you know what I may not be
an ex
but you know what I'm not a cancer
expert I'm not a cancer researcher you
know what I may not know what I'm
talking about but I'm doing the best I
can if you can look someone in the eyes
and say that really sincerely when
they've disrespected you they've said oh
well you know you can still eat meat and
not get cancer whatever you can look
back there I say you know what I'm not
an expert on cancer I don't know but
here's what I do know okay I can make a
pause the difference in the world by
eating less meat by eating absolutely no
meat at all and that's what I'm gonna do
okay
because I'm trying to do something good
I'm trying to make a positive difference
no matter how small you know if they
still come at you if they still
disrespect you more then you can just
then after you said that you can point
out the contrast you could say well you
know what I've just told you I'm trying
to do something positive are you right
now you attacking me are you trying to
do something positive what is this about
okay like maybe you're a hundred percent
right and I'm a hundred percent wrong
about cancer I don't want to talk about
that because I'm not the expert maybe
you're a hundred percent right about the
exploitation of migrant farm laborers
I'm not a human rights lawyer I'm not
involved with human rights cases for you
know minimum wage workers on farms
that's not what I'm about I miss telling
I'm trying to something positive are you